New agents tutorial using AgentWorkflow (#17926)
run-llama/llama_index: docs/docs/understanding/agent/human_in_the_loop.md

# Human in the loop

Tools can also be defined that get a human in the loop. This is useful for tasks that require human input, such as confirming a tool call or providing feedback.

As we'll see in the our [Workflows tutorial](../workflows/index.md), the way Workflows work under the hood of AgentWorkflow is by running steps which both emit and receive events. Here's a diagram of the steps (in blue) that makes up an AgentWorkflow and the events (in green) that pass data between them. You'll recognize these events, they're the same ones we were handling in the output stream earlier.

![Workflows diagram](./agentworkflow.jpg)

To get a human in the loop, we'll get our tool to emit an event that isn't received by any other step in the workflow. We'll then tell our tool to wait until it receives a specific "reply" event.

> We have built-in `InputRequiredEvent` and `HumanResponseEvent` events to use for this purpose. If you want to capture different forms of human input, you can subclass these events to match your own preferences. Let's import them:

Reviewer: Technically, any event type is supported here, not just these or subclasses of these (these do however, have special handling for workflow validation when used as step inputs and outputs)

Reviewer: Thats for return and input types on steps yes

`wait_for_event()` can use anything, since its not validated

Reviewer: Lets leave it as is for safety maybe

```python
from llama_index.core.workflow import (
    InputRequiredEvent,
    HumanResponseEvent,
)
```

> Next we'll create a tool that performs a hypothetical dangerous task. There are a couple ofnew things happening here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we'll create a tool that performs a hypothetical dangerous task. There are a couple of new things happening here:

```

        return "Dangerous task completed successfully."
    else:
        return "Dangerous task aborted."
```

We create our agent as usual, passing it the tool we just defined:

```python
workflow = AgentWorkflow.from_tools_or_functions(
    [dangerous_task],
    llm=llm,
    system_prompt="You are a helpful assistant that can perform dangerous tasks.",
)
```

Now we can run the workflow, handling the `InputRequiredEvent` just like any other streaming event, and responding with a `HumanResponseEvent` passed in using the `send_event` method:

```python
handler = workflow.run(user_msg="I want to proceed with the dangerous task.")

async for event in handler.stream_events():
    if isinstance(event, InputRequiredEvent):
        # capture keyboard input
        response = input(event.prefix)
        # send our response back
        handler.ctx.send_event(
            HumanResponseEvent(
                response=response,
                user_name=event.user_name,
            )
        )

response = await handler
print(str(response))
```

As usual, you can see the [full code of this example](https://github.com/run-llama/python-agents-tutorial/blob/main/5_human_in_the_loop.py).

> You can do anything you want to capture the input; you could use a GUI, or audio input, or even get another, separate agent involved. Which brings us to our next section, [multi-agent systems](./multi_agent.md).

Author: Added
